DEPLOY.md, before:

# Deployment and Release Guide 🛡️

This guide documents the "Master Setup" approach for building, packaging, and publishing DNS Agent.

## 📦 Successive Build Process

We follow a diligent "Build -> Test -> Resolve" cycle. Every build must ensure continuity of service and data.

### 1. Build and Package (v2.3+)
Run the build script to generate the latest distribution:
```powershell
powershell.exe -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File "Build-Release.ps1"
```

**Methodology:**
- **Non-Destructive**: Previous release ZIPs are preserved in the `Release/` folder for rollback or historical reference.
- **Comprehensive**: The ZIP contains all binaries, the browser extension, and the master setup scripts.
- **Git Backed**: Completed release ZIPs are force-committed to Git to allow deployment scripts to pull the latest architectural build.

### 2. Utilities
- **`Toggle-DNS.ps1`**: A convenience script for developers to quickly toggle their local machine's primary adapter between using the local DNS Agent (`127.0.0.1`) and Automatic (DHCP). It automatically flushes the DNS cache after each change.

### 3. Extension Versioning Policy
To ensure architectural alignment and simplify troubleshooting, the **Browser Extension version MUST always match the Service version** (e.g., v2.3.2). 
- When bumping the version, update `Constants.cs`, `manifest.json`, and `Build-Release.ps1` simultaneously.
- The Service tracks connected extension versions in the Dashboard via heartbeat metadata.

### 4. Deployment Methodology (Master Setup)
The deployment is handled by `Start-Setup.bat` (wrapper) and `Setup-DNSAgent.ps1`, which invoke the `install-service.ps1` master script.

**What the Master Setup Ensures:**
1.  **Process Management**: Automatically terminates any hung service or tray processes listening on critical ports (53, 5123).
2.  **Firewall Orchestration**: Sets up application-level firewall rules for both the Service and the Tray app to ensure network-wide protection.
3.  **Data Persistence (Rescue Logic)**:
    - Detects existing installations.
    - Backs up the current database (if empty) to `.bak`.
    - Automatically imports existing user data (`dnsagent.db`) from the old installation to the new one.
4.  **Service Lifecycle**: Uninstalls old versions and installs the new service with correct working directory registry keys for static asset resolution.
5.  **Integration**: Configures the Tray Icon to auto-start on user login and launches it immediately alongside the service.

## 📈 Version Tracking
We maintain a detailed [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) in the repository. Before every release, ensure the following are synchronized:
- `Constants.cs` (AppVersion)
- `.csproj` files (Version)
- `Build-Release.ps1` ($Version)

## 🏗️ Manual Installer
For Inno Setup instructions, see [installer/BUILD.md](installer/BUILD.md).

Commit message:

fix: Regenerate v2.3.4 ZIP and document robust database rescue logic

DEPLOY.md, after:

# Deployment and Release Guide 🛡️

This guide documents the "Master Setup" approach for building, packaging, and publishing DNS Agent.

## 📦 Successive Build Process

We follow a diligent "Build -> Test -> Resolve" cycle. Every build must ensure continuity of service and data.

### 1. Build and Package (v2.3+)
Run the build script to generate the latest distribution:
```powershell
powershell.exe -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File "Build-Release.ps1"
```

**Methodology:**
- **Non-Destructive**: Previous release ZIPs are preserved in the `Release/` folder for rollback or historical reference.
- **Comprehensive**: The ZIP contains all binaries, the browser extension, and the master setup scripts.
- **Git Backed**: Completed release ZIPs are force-committed to Git to allow deployment scripts to pull the latest architectural build.

### 2. Utilities
- **`Toggle-DNS.ps1`**: A convenience script for developers to quickly toggle their local machine's primary adapter between using the local DNS Agent (`127.0.0.1`) and Automatic (DHCP). It automatically flushes the DNS cache after each change.

### 3. Extension Versioning Policy
To ensure architectural alignment and simplify troubleshooting, the **Browser Extension version MUST always match the Service version** (e.g., v2.3.2). 
- When bumping the version, update `Constants.cs`, `manifest.json`, and `Build-Release.ps1` simultaneously.
- The Service tracks connected extension versions in the Dashboard via heartbeat metadata.

### 4. Deployment Methodology (Master Setup)
The deployment is handled by `Start-Setup.bat` (wrapper) and `Setup-DNSAgent.ps1`, which invoke the `install-service.ps1` master script.

**What the Master Setup Ensures:**
1.  **Process Management**: Automatically terminates any hung service or tray processes listening on critical ports (53, 5123).
2.  **Firewall Orchestration**: Sets up application-level firewall rules for both the Service and the Tray app to ensure network-wide protection.
3.  **Data Persistence (Robust Rescue Logic)**:
    - **Installation Awareness**: Detects existing installations via service lookups.
    - **Same-Directory Protection**: Prevents redundant imports if the new installation is in the same directory as the old one (ensures database continuity without file locks).
    - **Automatic Migration**: Safely moves `dnsagent.db` from legacy paths to the new release folder if they differ.
    - **Safety Snapshots**: Backs up placeholder databases to `.bak` before importing production data.
4.  **Service Lifecycle Orchestration**:
    - **Deep Cleanup**: Terminates hung processes and deletes old service entries for a clean upgrade.
    - **Static Asset Resolution**: Configures Registry keys to ensure the service finds CSS/Images correctly in the new path.
5.  **Integration**: Configures the Tray Icon to auto-start on user login and launches it immediately alongside the service.

## 📈 Version Tracking
We maintain a detailed [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) in the repository. Before every release, ensure the following are synchronized:
- `Constants.cs` (AppVersion)
- `.csproj` files (Version)
- `Build-Release.ps1` ($Version)

## 🏗️ Manual Installer
For Inno Setup instructions, see [installer/BUILD.md](installer/BUILD.md).
